Directory Structure
===================

If you come to this directory and wonder what the different directories, files
and links are, here is your explanation.

A typical list might look like:

    2013-09-17_15-06-03/
    2013-09-19_11-14-50/
    2013-09-19_11-32-16/
    2013-09-19_16-51-23/
    2013-09-23_17-15-53/
    2013-09-23_17-52-14/
    current@ -> /var/django/<projectname>/2013-09-23_17-52-14
    dbdumps/
    dev@ -> current
    README.mkd

where:

- items ending in `/` are directories,
- items ending in `@` are links, which what they link to following that
- other items are files

The directories which are date/time stamps are the checkouts, and the
date/time is when they were created - ie when there was a deploy.

The `current` link is used to identify the directory that is currently being
served by apache.

The `dev` link is there for backwards compatibility - the directory being
served by apache used to be called `dev/`, so this link means that anything
looking there will find what it expects.

And the `README.mkd` is this file - describing the directory contents.

## Why?

### Multiple versions for rollback

Rollback should now be as simple as deleting the `current` link and pointing
it at an older directory.

### virtualenv

One key reason is that virtualenvs don't react well to being moved around, and
there is a virtualenv within each directory.  Some files within the virtualenv
will hardcode the full path.  And while there is a relocatable option, it is
still considered experimental.

We want to build the virtualenv for the next version without taking the old
site down, but if we do that and then rename the directory then the virtualenv
will stop working due to the hardcoded full paths.
